README.md, before:

---
title: "About"
permalink: "/about/"
layout: page
---

My name is Thor Draper Jr. I have the following job titles:

- Microsoft Azure Network Support Engineer
- Cybersecurity Instructor with Trilogy Education
- Sales Consultant

I know, it sounds like a lot but I'm sure the list is going to grow.

### My story

I have an owner’s mentality toward every endeavor I take part in. I pride myself on communication and exceeding expectations.

My previous career was all in the sales field: this involved B2B, B2C, and a heavy influence of developing a team around me. My success was driven by being methodical and process-driven. I have had extensive experience in leadership positions. I’ve managed a team of over 30 employees with a mixture of full-time and part-time employees. I’ve had a four-prong approach to success: take care of your customers, take care of your employees, growth, and profits follow. I believe that this directly led to my early success in the IT field.

I've spent most of my life in a leadership role. I'm the type that always strives for more responsibility and I've always had a knack for effective communication. I got my first outside sales job at sixteen and joined the National Guard when I was 18. That was a one-two punch that made me personable and disciplined. In my sales career I split my time between B2C and B2B. I often found myself teaching, training, and developing a team.

In 2019, I decided to change careers and get into IT. After a few good years I was able to buy a gym back in my hometown of Charlotte, NC. Running a gym gives you quite a lot of free time in the middle of the day. I figured I'd start working on removing the chip on my shoulder that was not finishing college and start going back to school. I always like IT but as an angsty teen whose dad was in the field I always told myself that I didn't want to do what he did. But, it turns out the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. I jumped in with both feet and have enjoyed it.

Commit message:

post revisions/resume in readme

README.md, after:

---
title: "About"
permalink: "/about/"
layout: page
---

My name is Thor Draper Jr. I have the following job titles:

- Microsoft Azure Network Support Engineer
- Cybersecurity Instructor with Trilogy Education
- Sales Consultant

I know, it sounds like a lot but I'm sure the list is going to grow. If you'd like to look at my resume [here's a link!](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fVRo5wngTWiR01oggedOsMEI-hbYYwAFX4POfL_GSTQ/edit?usp=sharing)

### My story

I have an owner’s mentality toward every endeavor I take part in. I pride myself on communication and exceeding expectations.

My previous career was all in the sales field: this involved B2B, B2C, and a heavy influence of developing a team around me. My success was driven by being methodical and process-driven. I have had extensive experience in leadership positions. I’ve managed a team of over 30 employees with a mixture of full-time and part-time employees. I’ve had a four-prong approach to success: take care of your customers, take care of your employees, growth, and profits follow. I believe that this directly led to my early success in the IT field.

I've spent most of my life in a leadership role. I'm the type that always strives for more responsibility and I've always had a knack for effective communication. I got my first outside sales job at sixteen and joined the National Guard when I was 18. That was a one-two punch that made me personable and disciplined. In my sales career I split my time between B2C and B2B. I often found myself teaching, training, and developing a team.

In 2019, I decided to change careers and get into IT. After a few good years I was able to buy a gym back in my hometown of Charlotte, NC. Running a gym gives you quite a lot of free time in the middle of the day. I figured I'd start working on removing the chip on my shoulder that was not finishing college and start going back to school. I always like IT but as an angsty teen whose dad was in the field I always told myself that I didn't want to do what he did. But, it turns out the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. I jumped in with both feet and have enjoyed it.
